- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/CJC3010]]
	- # Chapter 7
	  heading:: 1
		- ## Lecture Notes:
		  heading:: 2
			- Science and goverment joined forces to fix social problems -> progressivism
				- This lead to the founding of the juvenile courts.
			- Rhetoric during this period consisted of rehabilitation & saving
				- The reality that happened was punishment and control lead to absolute compliance.
			- The rehabilitative ideal requires knowing the antecedent causes of crime
				- Science & Education: search for cause
				- Philanthropy towards colleges by industrialist like Rockefeller & Chicago School
				- These philantropist believed that the chicago slums were causing crime, so the solution was to try and fix it.
			- The university of chicago was made, became the 1st sociological school. Theorist were WASP men who never lived in slums.
				- Park & burgess: functional theory
				-
		- ## Book notes:
		  heading:: 2
			- The premise behind the progressive-based penology was that scientific casework would reveal thh causes of crime and appropriate rehabilition strategies.
			- Francis Allen (1964) Coined the term "the twentieth century rehabilitative ideal"
			- The twentity century rehabilitative ideal fueled a search for the causes of crime that was undertaken in large party by the newly created University of Chicago.
				- This chicago school shaped the prevailing wisdom on crime until the late 1930s.
			- This period's common explanation for crime involved the characteristics of individual criminal offenders, their group associations, and their immediate area of residence.
			- During this era, federal state and the local criminal justice system under went  substantial organizational expansion and  program differentiation.
				- This was in part due to the proliferation of criminological theories.
			- The belief was that having more knowledge about the offenders would enable them to devise better individualized treatment, which in turn would necessitate more program options.
			- This lead for a period of growth for the penal system (which would ultimately become the "correctional" system). This growth lasted roughly 60 years.
			- During these 60 years, there was little concern with creating new strategies, rather they opted to refine the existing ones.
			- ## Rehabilitative Ideal and Crime Causation
			  heading:: 2
				- Difference between 19th century and 20th century:
					- 19th century was all about attempts to explain and correct criminal behavior
					- 20th century was about broad optimism, scope, and development of scientific disciplines associated with the 20th century rehabilitative ideal.
				- Four assumptions underlined the 20th century rehabilitative ideal:
					- 1. **Human behavior is a product of antecedent causes.** (individuals area product of a particular past. Individual personal histories shape who and what people are and how they think and act.)
					  2. **The antecedent causes of human behavior can be identified and it is the obligation of behavior scientist to discover and describe the antecedent causes with all possible exactness.** (things like events, circumstances, group association, childhood sexual/physical abuse, etc)
					  3. **Knowledge of the antecedent causes of problem behavior enables scientific treatment of human behavior problems.**  (by knowing theses causes for an individuals problem, treatment plans can be designed that target that cause )
					  4. **Measures employed to treat criminal behavior serve a therapeutic function.** (They are thought to be in the best interest of the offender and of society by making  those treated contributing members of society.)
				- Rockerfeller help funded and transform the small Baptistic college in Chicago to one of America's  foremost universities -- the university of chicago.
					- I n 1900 William Rainey Harper searched the nation for prominent professors so he could establish the universities academic foundation.
					- Rockefeller's goal in doing this was to establish an urban social work purpose.
						- He and other industrialist were concerned about what they perceived to be instability among the workforce. They associated this instability with the slums, as most of the Chicago workforce lived there, and they believed the slums were a breeding ground for unrest and social problems among workers and their children.
					- The university's sociology department began with one single goal of improving the slums.
						- University scholars often would speak out publicly in defense of ethnic groups and call for various corrective actions aimed at improving their inferior living, working, and educational conditions in the slums.
					- ### Social Disorganization and Culture Conflict:
					  heading:: 3
						- 1920 lead to the rise to the theme of describing the social and economic forces of work in the slums as "social pathology or "social disorganization"
						- The social disorganization approach became one of the Chicago's schools fundemental contributions to the explanation of crime.
						- *Park and burgess** theorized that American society is characterized by ever-present conditions of competition, which generate conflict that is manifested in such social problems as crime.
						  background-color:: purple
							- But american society possess the inherent capacity to accomodate and/or correct both the conditions leading to conflict and other social problems like crime, thereby enabling the assimilation of all society members into the american common culture.
								- Together, these assumptions reflect the image of American society as an ongoing social system that becomes disrupted by social change. **Social change results in social disorganization and conflict, which precipitates social problems like crime.**
									- the belief is that as social reorganization progresses through accommodation and corrections results in the assimilation of people, and the decline of social problems.
						- ### Concentric Zone Theory
						  heading:: 3
							- **Shaw and McKay (1972)** documented that high-crime and delinquency neighborhoods suffered from a number of pathological conditions. The researcher also found that despite rapid population increases and turnover, crime and delinquency rates in particular geographic neighborhoods remained constant.
							- Shaw and McKay's research eventually lead to the belief that crime and delinquency is linked to geographical locality rather than individual psychology.  (This think would later evolve into **concentric zone theory** and **culture conflict**)
							- The general theory of crime and deliquency that evolved fro mthe social pathology or social disorganization research at the University of Chicago became known as **culture conflict**
							- ### Culture conflict summerized:
							  heading:: 3
								- The culture of slum neighborhoods is in conflict with the larger and more dominant culture of middle class america.
									- It was believed that through reformation efforts, such as improved housing, better sanitation,  improved schools, etc, these communities and residents will become reorganized around the middle class norms and values, and that social problems such as crime and delinquency would decline.
							- ### Differential Association
							  heading:: 3
								- A refinement to the culture conflict theory came in 1938 by **Sutherland**.
									- Sutherland was not happy with culture conflict because:
										- TODO figure out why
										- First, Some believed america criminology was not theoritcal.
										- Secondly, there was a lack of understand about criminal behavior
										- Thirdly, the closet approach to a general theory of criminal behavior at the time was culture conflict and Sutherland viewed it to be lacking.
										- Lastly, **Sutherland and Thorsten Sellin'**s 1930's research on national crime could not properly explain their findings.
										- Thus, Sutherland concluded that Chicago school's researc h findings on the city slums actually demonstrated **differntial social organization** rather than **social disorganization**
									- **differential social organization:**
										- TODO find definition
								- ### What is differnetial association theory?
								  heading:: 3
									- Sutherland's "differential association theory" contended that people become delinquent or criminal through a form of learning that is structured by individual being exposed to excess definitions favorable to violation of law relative to definitions unfavorable to the violation of law.
										- **According to differential association theory, deliquency and crime are learned through the same process that law-abiding behaviors are learned.**
									- ### What are the 9 components that make up Differential Association?
									  heading:: 3
										- 1. Criminal behavior is learned.
										  2. Criminal behavior is learned with other persons in a process of communication
										  3.  The principal part of the learning of criminal behavior occurs within intimate personal groups.
										  4.  When criminal behavior is learned, the learning includes (a) techniques of committing the crime; (b) the specific direction of motives, drives, rationalizations and attitudes.
										  5.  The specific direction of motives and drives is learned from definitions of legal codes as favorable and unfavorable.
										  6. A person becomes delinquent because of an excess of definitions favorable to violation of law over definitions unfavorable to violation of law.
										  7. Differential association may very in frequency, duration, priority, and intensity.
										  8. The process of learning criminal behavior by association with criminal and anti-criminal patterns involves all of the mechanisms that are involved in any other learning.
										  9. Through criminal behavior is an expression of general needs and values, it is not explained by those general needs and values since non criminal behavior is an expression of the same needs and values.
										- TODO  Ask if we need to memorize all of these.
							- ### Anomie and the American Dream
							  heading:: 3
								- **Robert K. Merton** (1938) published an article entitled, "Social Structure and Anomie", where he presented a new general theory of criminal behavior --
									- Merton's new theory came as a result of him trying to explain why the incidence of crime in America were considerably higher than in other Western industrial nations such as England, France, and Germany.
								- Merton argued that all Americans, regardless of social status, are subject to a common socialization process that stresses high aspirations and open access to the means for achieving these high aspirations.
									- **Merton claimed that everyone raised in American society is taught to believe that through hard work and postponed gratification, they can achieve anything for which they are willing to work and sacrifice. This belief is known as the American Dream. Merton elaborated that the American Dream is more myth than reality because Americans do not have equal access to means for achieving high aspirations. As a result, many ultimately suffer relative deprivation which can result in anomie. Those suffering from anomie (or normlessness), in turn, experience disappointment and frustration that facilitates drift into various nonconformist behaviors, including crime**
									- As a result of this Merton concluded that American society has a much higher incidence of crime than other Western industrial countries because of its uniformly high aspirations and its failure to provide equal access to the means necessary to achieve these commonly held high aspirations.
							- ### Theortical Extensions and Integrations
							  heading:: 3
								- **Cohn (1955)** contented that lower-class boys are driven into delinquent gangs through a process he termed "reaction formation"
									- He did this by employing Merton's theory of relative deprivation and anomie.
									- Cohen argued that lower-class boys are largely unable to succeed in the middle-class structured public schools. These lower-class boys react to their public school failure by forming an alternative delinquent subculture.
								- **Miller (1958)** offered another delinquent subculture theory of crime.
									- Miller argued for a culturally centered theory of crime that was distinct and disconnected from middle-class culture and associated behaviors. Miller contented that while middle-class culture focused upon achievement, hard work, and postponed gratification, lower-class culture's "focal concerns" were centered upon toughness, masculinity, and skills at such things as imaginative profanity.
										- This borrowed from Sutherland's emphasis on learning and differential association.
									- **Cloward and Ohlin (1960)** provided an integration of elements from delinquency and opportunity theories
									- **Overall, what emerged from the development of theories of criminality and delinquency was a continuing focus upon the individual offender and associated correlates of criminal behavior.**
			- ## Growth and Refinement of the Correctional System
			  heading:: 2
				- Prevailing rehabilitative thinking guided the growth of the American penology system was that successful criminal and delinquent rehabilitation could be accomplished only through individualized treatment.
				- The 1940 penal system was comprised of prisons, reformatories, parole, probation, juvenile courts, local jails, and a declining number of workhouses.
				- However, the main focus of the system was on expanding and differentiating prisons, parole and probation. **What occurred over the subsequent decades was a seres of efforts to rationalize, professionalize, differentiate, and bureaucratize, and generally perfect these major components of the American penal system.**
				- ## Prison Expansion, Differentiation, and Treatment
				  heading:: 2
					- Until the late nineteenth century, the federal government relied upon state prisons to house federal prisoners and to provide leasing arrangements for private employers.
					- This changed when congress banned the leasing of federal prisoners in 1887, and between 1885 and 1895, the number of federal prisons increased from 1,027 to 2,516
					- **As a consequence, Congress developed federal prisons, the first of which was in Leavenworth, Kansas, in 1987**
						- **Atlanta, Georgia** became the second site for federal prison in 1902
						- **Alderson, West Virginia** was chosen as the site for the first federal prison for women in 1928.
					- **The first federal prisons were operated separately and without centralized administration**
						- These prisons ran as separate entities with out any central organization.
					- **The creation of the Federal Bureau of Prisons came in 1929 as a response to the many problems these prisons were facing.**
						- Before the Federal Bureau of prisons, these prisons faced prison congestion and troubles keeping efficient records in order to facilitate the goal of proper classification and segregation of prisoners.
						- This started the process of centralizing prisons.
						- The first director of the Bureau was **Sanford Bates**, he was responsible for a number of important imrpvements.
							- Bates altered the method of selecting wardens, replacing the system of political patronage for a **merit system**.
								- In 1937 the Bureau placed all prisoners under the federal service, throwing off the last bit of political patronage.
							- Wardens were trained at the special bureau facility, and could be promoted up the ranks within the bureau.
						- The classification of offenders in the federal system was based upon the Bureau's criminological study of prisoners.
							- Who went where?
								- Low risk offenders sent to non-custodial camps
								- More serious offenders sent to Leavenworth and Atlanta.
								- Offenders deemed that they were likely to benefit from agricultural training were sent to McNeil Island
								- Mentally impaired were sent to the hospital prison in Springfield, Illinois.
								- The most serious hardcore federal prisoners were sent to Alcatraz
							- **The bureau's classification system was far more comprehensive than the classification efforts for most states**
								- As a result, **some states took inspiration and expanded their range of prisons.**
									- This lead to an increasingly complex array of minimum, medium, and maximum security facilities at both the state and federal levels.
						- In 1954, *The American Prison Association* changed its name to *The American Correctional Association* in order to reflect their goal of rehabilitation.
						- During this time, it was agreed that "huge factory like institutions" were barriers to individualized treatment, as they went against the goal of rehabilitation.
							- **This represented a shift away from heavy reliance on maximum security institutions and implemented smaller, more open and minimum security facilities**
				- ## Expansion of Paroel and Probation
				  heading:: 2
					- Parole began as a component of the ninteenth-century reformatory and indeterminate sentencing movement, but soon developed independently with its use become more wide spread
					- Beginning in 1900s,  prison managers sought to expand parole as a means to avoid new prison construction.
					- During the early implementation of parole, primary attention was given to the released rather than the supervision process.
						- "Parole was used, much as the pardon power had been, to select relief for a few worthy cases"
					- Initially, community supervision was not seen as a necessity because parole was to be used only for a select for low-risk offenders with impeccable community ties.
					- At the end of [[World War 1]] many states revised their parole laws to authorize the use of parole for a much broader array of offenders, including recidivists and murderers. **Rather than being used for only a select few low-risk offenders, parole became the preferred method of releasing inmates.**
					- in 1950, a new parole model was  in place, and was deemed a **"clinical model"**. it emerge in response to declining demand for unskilled workers and an increasing proportion of minorities in the prison population.
						- The clinical model stresses the professional capacity of parole agents to craft treatment programs that are responsive to individuals needs of the parolee and that can operate independently of the community.
					- Simon (1993) argued that the development of the clinical model in parole represented an institutional acknowledgement of a potential underclass
						- H believed that policy makers of the 1950s and the 1960s believed there was a class of people who could not be absorbed into the labor force until they had been altered and fully prepared for the labor force.
					-