- 10,11,12,13,14
-
	- Chapter 10:
		- Know what labeling theory is
		  collapsed:: true
			- know its assumptions
		- 1964 lindon johnsons crime controll aproach
		  collapsed:: true
			- Similar to space effort during this time
				- He felt if we jsut pulled the scientist together and look at crime, its causes, and consequences, we can come up with a strategy.
			- He set up presidiental comission report, and what came prominent was the idea, the labeling idea, that the criminal justice system was doing more harm then good. So the idea was to avoid the system at all cost.
				- in order to avoid the system diversion became the name of the game.
			- The quesiton johnson faced was "how do we get america to shift the criminal justice system"
				- Well, they implemented a subsidy system, so local regions etc, and implement things like diversion. They would get federal funding, but this federal funding wasn't perminate.
		- Know the north county diversion program.
			- TODO ask about this
		- looking at the 4 different component and try to understand this -- diversion was intended as an alternative to committing juveniles to the juvenile court.
			- TODO ask about this too
			- but the outcome our professor determine with his research was that diversion did not become implemented as an alternative, but rather a suplement (an addon).
				- in otherwise the clients of diversion would have never gone to juvenile courts in the first place.
				- our professor doccumented net-widing.
				- our professor was able to use the originalation framework to show it was intention, operating with conflicting goals, etc, competiting for resources, basically they implemented these in order to get more resources but not actually to address juveniles better.
				- Diversion widened the net in a very expansive and unprecedent way.
				- QUESTION TO THINK ABOUT: is netwiding by definition bad? or are their circumstances where netwiding could be good.  Research and evaulation determine the good and the bad.
- Chapter 11 - conservatism law and order period
	- We basically reversed course during this period. The belief in the 1980s was that all of our efforts to treat and rehabilitate have failed. So if nothing works in treatement, we outta reverse course.
		- if you do the crime, you will do the time.
		- LARGE CONTEXT: Crisis in american institutions -- water gatem viatnam war, riots, civil disobidents, and out of this there was a call for radical change
	- out of the crisis in aermica, In 1980 ronald regand became president.
		- zero tolerance became the name of the game in crime control.
		- Between 1972 and 82, our crime was stable (all of this activity wasn't tied to a jump in crime)
			- so the regan stargety was to reverse course of reduce goverment, reduce the size of goverment, reduice regulation, support greater privitization, reduce or elimitate and welfare program, while at the same time increasing americas military might.
				- Number of billionaire increased during the regan era.
			- So crime control became more punitive, more expensive, and relied more on incareration **this is why its called the mass incarceration era**
		- Moved from indeterminate sentencing to determinate sentencing, three strikes laws, rembrancement of the death penalty.
		- What occured in the 80s was a mass mobilization of addressing smaller criminal behaviors, such as drug dealing (page 204 table -- look at these numbers)
		- So, in summerary, we had mass incarceration, and the the table tells us we have mass population, mass incarceration, mass jailing, and what some called was was a carcal society
		- TODO what was the society called?
- Chapter 12:
	- Since mass incarceration, we got a lot of old people in prison, and it became very costly. Basicaly we saw an increase in special populations
		- special populations: elderly, women, mothers, mentally ill
	- the prison in this chapter tries to display -- becoming an nursery, a hospital, and an assylium.
	- DO KNOW that older more frail inmates are not victimized by younger inmates.
		- With elderly inmates, you see they are treated in prison, in some ways like they would in the free way. Basically, what we see if the stronger inmates would protect the elderly
- Chapter 13 - punsihment in the melenial age
	- We talked about post-modern society (not gonna hang us up on this, its vague and blurry)
		- the concept is huge in order to explain contemporary society.
		- in its most simple form, post modern, it implies a break from the modern area.
			- the modern era goes from the enlightment period, too 1960s.
				- Post modern, we are become more different, more modern, more intergrated.
				- What we see emergening in criminally in the post modern era, particular in the 90s and 2000s, we see a push to integration.
				- Nurture theory are always inconclusive because they don't consider nature, they don't consider biology.
			- What we have seen, is the rise of super maxs prisons in this era, a major explosion of sex offender registration, but at the same we are also really into offender reentry.
			- privitzaiton is still around, thought it has declined, its possible they will experience another rebirth.
	- One of the most telling thing in chapter 13, is that the report of 2.3m americans were under custody. 1/31 Americans were under some form of correctional reform.
- Chapter 14
	- figure 14.1 -- it shows an effort to display netwiding (page 263).
	- What this chapter tells you, it describes all these various things  -- some treatement, some punitive, some intermeditate ounsihement (aka treatement and punsihment)
		- all of this in an effort to regulate society
		- How do we understand this?
			- American society is a democratic society. -- democratic society = individual rights and freedom, and ___ is blurred with that.
			- TODO ask about the blank
	- So, when we think about a culture of control, we have to think about our efforts to deal with 9-11, jan 6, and our efforts to maintain our democracy, we are finding it necessary to make changes.
		- TODO ask if this is why we see modern political movements to regulate guns, stuff like red flag laws, etc.
	- Technology had an impact too, cases get cleared fast, but they also enable new types of crime, and they allow for crime to be comitted more easily etc.
	- More and more demand for evidence, people want things that work. BIG DATA era.
- FRAMEWORK ON CORRECTION ORGANIZATION: A FORMAL ORGANZIAITON WITH BEUCRATIC CHARACTERISTIC
	- FORMAL ORGANIZAITON - COLLECTIVITY OF POEPLE brought together to serve a common goal
	- Beucratic chateristic
- Question: how did these liberation concepts beocme intentionally operationalzied as punitive controleld conscents
	- and the answer is organizaitonal transformation.
		- if ur gonna understand organizaiton transformation, u gotta understand its charateristics
			- These organizaitons, wither juvenial court, court, operated under a condition of conflicting goals and ambigus treatment understand
				- Goals: treat, control, punish (all conflict eachother)
				- never enough resources either (time money, etc.) -- this produces conflicting goals and ambigius understanding of treatment
				- All of this results in operational uncertintity
					- if u operate with opertational uncertinity, you are prediposed to implement various reforms that you think will reduce your operational uncertanity. (you don't worry about intentions, you only worry about your organization)
					- **important** we are all going to work in a formal organization, each one has their own unique problems -- university = publish or perish.