## Sliding Window
heading:: 2
collapsed:: true
	- category:: [[Data Structures and Algorithms]]
	- Sliding window is actually implemented using two pointers.
	- Subarrays are just a section of an array.
		- **Left bound** the starting index
		- **Right bound** the ending index.
	- The idea behind the sliding window technique is to efficiently find the "best" window that fits some constraint.
	- The general algorithm behind sliding windows is:
		- 1. Define a pointer for the left and right bound that represents he current window, usually both of them start at 0.
		  2. iterate over the array with the round bound to "add" elements into the window.
		  3. Whenever the constraint is broken, then "remove" elements from the window by increasing the left bound until the condition is satisfied again.
	- The big idea behind sliding windows is to avoid doing duplicate instructions, for example by shifting the sliding window, we just have to modify the previous windows sum by removing the previous initial element, and then adding into the new ending element. https://youtu.be/GcW4mgmgSbw
	-
- study chapter 7,8,9  (exam thursday)
  collapsed:: true
	- reading - he wanted to show what prison was like from the perspective of prisoners.
		- in order to do that, he assumed, he would have to approach his study from a social-pschological perspective in order for him to determine what prison was life for prisoners.
		- He wanted to comprehend the social characteristic of the prison
			- What are these social charateristics of the prison and what do they do the psychological make up of people. what happens to be people who live in that environment.
		- He knew american society is very different from american pschyicy
		- Participant observation - this means gresham participated in the daily events of prison (not as a complete participant, but as a participanted observer.)
			- In order to understand his observations, he talked to prisoners and talked to the gaurds.
		- The society of captives develops as the inmates try and survive in prison
		- The pains of imprisonment
	- ## 20th century rehabilitative ideal
	  heading:: 2
		- The argument made in chapter 7, out of the juvenile court movement developed a pervasive ideology that covered both juveniles and adults -- 20th century ideal
			- Punishment was view as a bit archaic, and that we needed to embrace treatment, and treatment that would serve a rehabilitative ideal.
				- from the rehabilitiative ideal, modern criminology sprung out of it.
				- The search for anisedient causes to human behavior
					- once identify, we could developed stategies to best approach these cause -- rehabilitive
						- making struggling people fully productive members of society --- rehabilitative ideal
						- these exact reason is why criminology arose to the forefront and became what it is today.
				- 1899 - rockerfeller and entruepuners believed the slums were the issue, donated lots of money to small baptist college (later became university of Chicago) ~23:00 timestamp~ the univesities applied prupose was to study slums, identify bad features and elemenitate them.
				-
		- What is a theory? KNOW THAT
			- A theory is an explanation. An explanation describes and identify a cause and effect relationships.
				- **Causality** became primary focus of criminology
		- First theory to know that emmerged uni of chichago -- theory of culture conflcit:
			- Concentric zones.
				- At the center is the industrial core.
				- the next layer is the zone of transition -- the era viewed as problematic
		- Next theory 1933 by guy named Southerland -- theory of differential association:
			- What ever peer groups you associate with determine your behavior.
			- southerland said, when u associate with certain groups, you don't just learn their behavior, but you also learn their relationizaitons.
				- criminal behavior, like legal behavior, is learned.
		- Next theory -- Merton -- strain theory
			- Merton said its American society,
			- merton argue when u have high aspirations, but limited means to achieve them, you will suffer from         time stamps 40:30
			- relative deprevaiton -> anomie -> normalness -> maladaptive behavior
		- Cohen 1951 deliquent boys, 1960 Rich cloward and owen
		- As these theories proliffered, the correctional system responded with the idea that more is better
			- Scope of the criminal justice system expanded.
			- this marked a proliferaiton of services -- more is better.
		- Development of federal prisons, levens worth alanta to alcatraz
			- All of this is in response
			- prior to fed prisons, state prisosn would house fed prisoners.
				- federal prisons became a model after they were introduce for state prisons, same with probation.
		- Philosphy can be broken down -- explanation  the causes of crime, treat, and eliminate crime.
		- in the 60s and 70s we had for the first time a building of a prisoner rights movement. the legitmacy of prisons was't questioned prior to this movement on a broad spectrum -- it was just assume that prisoners were doing what they were suppose do.
		- in the 60s, we were releasing that the systems/goverment we grew up with had infact taken up a life of their own. And out of this context, that a whole series of reforms were launched.
			- Three types of stategies to reform the prisons
				- 1. Legal systems /lawsuits
				  2. protest
				  3. riots
				-
		- 1880 -1980  (45:30 timestamp)