- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/CCJ4497]]
  collapsed:: true
	- [[Criminal Justice/Policy]] 8/25/22
		- ## What is policy?
		  heading:: 2
			- "A set of ideas or plans that is used as a basis for making decisions..."
			- How are policies used within the criminal justice system?
				- Used to facilitate and regulate action
				- Guide the decision-making process.
				- Provide direction as the policy is implemented.
		- ## Where do policy's come from?
		  heading:: 2
			- Public reactions
			- Court outcomes (legal precedent)
			- Resources (financial, staff, etc.)
			- Politics (who is in power, what the political ideas are)
			- Research
		- ## Examples of criminal justice policies:
		  heading:: 2
			- Sentencing guidelines
			- Providing judges with a range that they can use to help make sentencing decisions:
				- Why? To reduce the number of disparities
				- Actually: Pushed harsher sentences, reduce powers of judges
			- Mandatory arrest policies:
				- In many jurisdictions, officers are required to make an arrest if called to a domestic dispute.
					- effect: wrong perosn may be arrested, reduces discretion of police offers.
					- Policies are meant to help aid in what to do
		- ## The need for Criminal Juistice policy:
		  heading:: 2
			- Policy changes occur in response to a need or issue that faces the criminal justice system and society.
			- Often rooted in discussions about levels of crime in society.
			- Policy viewed as a way to influence crime rates and guide handling of offenders.
		- ## Intdeterminate sentencing:
		  heading:: 2
			- Defined as: individualized sentencing system; a range (example: between 5 and 10 years)
		- ## 1970s:
		  heading:: 2
			- the 1970s was concerned about the indeterminate sentencing system, said that there were no constraints on judicial discretion.
			- During this time there was a move towards determinate sentencing, and a move away from the parole boards.
			- Tougher policies during this era contributed ot the increase of mass incarcceration
				- Racial disparities in incarceration during this era.
		- ## The development of criminal justice policy:
		  heading:: 2
			- Stages of policy development:
				- 1. Problem identification.
				  2. Policy demands.
				  3. Agenda Formation.
				  4. Policy adoption.
				  5. Policy implementation. 
				  6. policy evaluation.
				- Policy implementation is where we typically see things go wrong.
					- Sometimes problems arise with a lack of clarity in how the law is written.
					- Resources may be lacking to properly implement as well.
				- Policy evaluation should be happening on a routine basis, but often does not happen.
					- Overlooking this keeps policies in place that we know do not work.
		- ## Who is involved in policy development?
		  heading:: 2
			- There are a number of key players involved in policy development.
				- Political figures from across the spectrum
				- Concerned citizens (initiative process in states such as California)
				- Crime victims
			- What is the role of research in the development of criminal justice process?
				- TODO Go back and fully answer this question.
				- There is often stigma in each group that creates boundary for researches and policymakers to communicate.
		- ## Politics and Criminal Justice Policy:
		  heading:: 2
			- Different philosophical foundations lead to different criminal justice policies AND different views on the function of the system.
				- Liberal (how the govt. can intervene to support disadvantaged groups)
				- Conservative (advocates for less government intervention, focuses more on personal responsibility for offending)
			- Crime control model:
				- says the primary role of the criminal justice system is to try to suppress criminal behavior; swift and  severe sentences vs due process model.
			- Due process model:
				- says the primary role of the criminal justice system is to protect individual rights and freedoms.
			- Liberals are often for the due process model while conservatives favor the crime control model.
		- ## Washington Politics and Criminal Justice Policies:
		  heading:: 2
			- Dating back to the 1970s, crime has been a key component of presidential platforms.
			- In 1965, Lyndon Johnson declared a war on crime, and crime became a major talking point in the subsequent president election.
			- In 1971, Richard Nixon declared the war on drugs.
			- 1980s - "tough on crime" rhetoric emerged, and since that time politicians have worked to avoid appearing "soft on crime"
			- 1986 - Anti-Drug Abuse Act, Regan (passed mandatory minimum sentences)
			- 1994 - Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, passed by Clinton.
		- ## The Role of Fear and the Media on criminal justice policeis:
		  heading:: 2
			- Fear of crime is often is fueled by "vicarious victimization"
				- TODO research what the above means.
				- This can include victimization of others known to them, as well as others in the commnity.
			- Mass Media also has significant power in shaping perception of crime and justice.
				- Ex: gun control due ot heavy coverage of mass shootings
				- Ex: immigrants portrayed as criminals (trying to end the DACA program).
			- Real crime television programming and crime dramas have become American staples.
				-
		-
			-
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Super Predators]] 9/1/22
		- Super Predators: fear of minors becoming super predators; more punitive laws towards youth.
		- Treating youth as adults in court
		- Virtually every state enacted laws agaisnt juvenile offenders.
			- But juvenile crime rates ahd been dropping during this time.
		- The super predator idea was wrong, but the chaos and damage was already dealt.
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Incarceration]] 9/1/22
		- ## The Growth of Incarceration #prisons
		  heading:: 2
			- Incarcerations rates peaked around 2008 and have been on a modest decline but we are nowhere near as low as they were in the 50s.
				- Lots of variation in incarceration rates across the states.
			- Why was there a growth of incarceration?
				- The goals of the system.
				- Funding for state prisons
				- Some stances have jails for sentences up to two years (anything beyond that is prison)
			- Compared to other countries, we over incarcerate relative to the rest of the world.
				- Other developed countries are low on the list on levels of incarceration.
			- Huge gaps on what invididual are being incarccerated in the U.S.
				- This translates to disparities in the likelihood of incarcceration.
					- Men: 1 in 9 are likely to be incarccerated in their lifetime
					- Black men: 1 in 3 are likely to be incarccerated in their life times.
				- To what can we attribute the growth of incarceration too?
					- The more punitive policites that w adopted in the 1980s and continued to enforce
					- More serious sancitons
					- Stricter enforcement:
						- More people were going away, and they were going away for longer periods of time.
						- Mandatory minimums
						- Mandatory Sentencing
						- Broken windows policing
						- Hot spot policing
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Incarceration]] 9/6/22
		- Given their size, prisons have a large impact on things like the labor economy, the market, race relations, etc.
		- There is a lot of variation amongst states. This is unique to the US because we allow each state to handle their methods of incarceration
			- This is unique to the US because we allow each state to handle their methods of incarceration.
		- Different sentencing guidelines, different levels of discretion on every level, economic factors.
		- When we look at the top ten list, we are close to countries that we do not typically like comparing ourselves to.
		- Who goes to prison in the US?
			- We have highly dispparet reates of incarccaration.
				- racial and ethnic disparties.
			- Black people are incarcerated  that is more than 5 times that of their white coutnerpart.
			- The gap has slightly reduced overtime, but it is still huge.
			- The prime explanation early on was ideas of rates of offending.
		- In 2014 there were three groups that came together to try to understand that causes of growing incarcceration rates and teh collateral consequences.
			- Can be attributed to a more punitive political climate.
			- A period of rising crime and rapid social change.
		- ## Policies and practices contributing to high rates of incarceration
		  heading:: 2
			- **Phase 1:** changes aimed at increased consistency and fairness
			- Parole and sentencing guidelines
			  background-color:: #533e7d
			- **Phase 2: ** Changes aimed at increased certainty and severity
			- Truth-in-sentencing laws (Servering at least 85% of their setnence)
			  background-color:: #533e7d
			- Mandatory Miniums and three strike laws (required a minimum 25 year sentence)
			- Life without possibility of parole:
				- Wanted to make sentence for drug offenses more severe and certain.
			- What started out as a more progressive moment became more conservative.
		- ## Disparities in the sentences given for certain drugs and their amounts:
		  heading:: 2
			- The prosection plays a large role in individual cases as they decide what the charge is and whether or not htey are charged.
			- Beforehand however, officers also have the discretion in whether or not they preform an arrest.
			- Goals of prisons: to reduce crime and increase public safety:
				- How is this done?
					- Incapacitation
					- Retribution
					- Rehabilitaiton
					- Deterrence.
					- These goals are competing and have had more or less importance throughout history.
			- Grow in incarnation was the result of moving away from rehabilitation to retribution and incapacitation.
		- ## The underlying causes of inccareration: crime, politics, and social change
		  heading:: 2
			- The post-war erea and teh framing of crime and disorder (unemploymenet, social unrest)
			- Arresting for low-level crimes, trespassing, property crime, low level drug crimes.
			- Social and political turmoil of the '60s and '70s.
			- Social movements (civil rights, women's equality)
			- Protest against the Vietnam war.
			- Assassination of MLK
			- Assassination of JFK
			- Rising crime rates.
			- Political and electoral realignment
			- Jerrymandering, realigning how distrcts vote.
		- ## Prison and Crime Rates:
		  heading:: 2
			- Has the increase in inccareration made the US safe?
				- Yes, but the crime-reducing impacts of incarccation is very small.
					- Estimates suggest that 10% increase in incarccration corresponds to a 0.1-1% decline in crime.
				- These declining marginal returns are acclerated as the prison populations increases.
				- Taking an international perspective, other countries saw a same pattern decreasing crime while not implementing those punitive policies.
		- ## Prison Management:
		  heading:: 2
			- Coinciding with the early part of hte prison buildup, shift from the "old penology" to the "new penology"
				- Old penology: emphasized individual responsability, diagnosis, treatment (mass ammount of people would be returning to society)
				- New penology: concerned with the identificaiton, classification, and management of dangerous groups.
			- Facilities operating under the new penology were focused on efficiency and tended to be more military-like with stricter discipline, high-tech security and surveillance.
			- Despite predictions, prison operations have actually improved over the course of the prison build-up (decline in prison riots, lower rates of escape, fewer staff assaults/murders, etc)
		- ## In-prison Programs:
		  heading:: 2
			- We rcognize that 95% of incarcerated individuals will return to society.
		- ## Avalible in prison programming includes:
		  heading:: 2
			- Education programs
			- Vocational training
			- Therapeutic offerings (anger management, drug and alcohol)
			- However, the quality of many programs is low, and the number of program opportunities does not meet inmate demand:
				- Only 30% of inmates have access to these programs due ot finaces and priso nvalues.
				- More inmates in work assignments than in programs.
				- Inmate accountability model: inmates are given the incentive to work hard to improve their conduct so that they have the possibility of being released sooner.
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Incarceration]] 9/8/22
		- Non-policy factors that pushed an increase in incarceration:
		  background-color:: #533e7d
			- By the early 80s, we saw rates of incarcceration begin to creep up.
			- End of vietnam war
			- Population growth
			- Increase crime rates
			- Emphasis on more street level arrests.
			- **Changing attitudes about crime:**
				- People within the criminal justice system were also changing their attitudes (prosecutors).
				- Police officers.
				- Judges.
				- Correctional officers and parole officers.
		- ## What lies ahead for prison?
		  heading:: 2
			- Policy reform:
				- shorter prison stays through initiatives including "earned time"
				- changes to parole/probation, include sactions for violations
				- Sentencing reform that reduce the number of people that go to prison and sentence length
				- Correctional leadership:
					- well-defined missions
					- Insitutional policies and settings that inspire staff to make good choices.
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Incarceration]] 9/13/22
		- In 1971, President Nixon formally declared the war on drugs
		- The objective was to erradicate drug use in the US
		- Focus on supply and deamdn front on drugs
		- Over the last 4 decades, policymakers have enacted a number of drug polices that:
			- include heavy reliance on law enforcement and the criminal jstice system
			- Focus almost exclusiely on zero-tolerance approaches to treatment and prevention.
			- Drug prices are a good indicator of the demand of drugs on the street.
			- Drug war wanted to reduce problem associated wit hsubstance absue and reduce the demand for drugs.
			- There has been a fourfold increase ind rugs from 1979-2007
			- The number of people that we have incarcerated today for drug related offenses is larger than the entire prison population a few deaces ago
		-
			- **Goal:** to reduce use
			- **Aim:** To make drugs scarecer and costlier
			- Sucess? No, drug use has not been reduced.
			- We can look at if drug prices have increased
				- The drug prices of most drugs have declined substantially during this period.
				- Are drugs easier to access? Yes, they are still easily avalible.
				- Drug use? there were declines when teh drug war was in a period of high orce but overall, drug use appears the same.
				- So, success?
					- By most indicators the answer is NO:
						- Drugs are cheaper and more accessible
						- Drug use has not exhbibited a dramatic decline
						- The sections associated with the drug war are too punitive.
			- ## Impact of the [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Drug War]]
			  heading:: 2
				- THe war on drugs expanded the reach of the criminal justice system in the following ways:
					- Harsher sentences and increase reliance on incaeration
					- Increase seizures of private property
					- Police militarization: drug wars intended to target kingpins but policies significantly impacted lower level drug crimes.
					- Civil asset forfeiture: money, houses, cars -- meant to incapacitate the traffickers but have provided an incentive for police to find drug dealers.
				- Federal forfeitures: 
				  1986: $93.7 million 
				  2014: $4.5 billion
					-
			- ## Drugs related to crime:
			  heading:: 2
				- The drugs related to crime are:
					- Crack/cococaine
					- bath salts
					- alcohol
				-
				- Crime related to drug use or abuse
				- Crime attribute to drug markets (gangs, dealers trying to be seen as tough)
				- Economically motivated crime by user
				- Indirect casual linkages between drug use and crime: financial status; poorer youth are discouraged to go to school or find a job because they see other making money through the drug trade.
				- Do these connection depend on the type of drug?
					- we are not likely to see aggressive affects with sedative drugs that tend to relax people.
					- Can be violent, especially if focused in specific areas, gangs, threat of force or actual force to settle disputes between dealers.
					- Crime has more to do with the context in which the drugs are being passed along
					- **Debates on the legilzaiton to marijuana:** research market shows that marijuana contributes very little to the rime rate.
					- Marijuana is also not as expensive as other drugs.
					- Research also shows that marijuana does not casue aggression.
				- The flip side:
					- Alcohol does cause aggression and violence.
					- Ideas to further prevent alcohol use.
					- Drug laws, prohibion, decriminlatization, regulation-plus-taxiation
						- what might happen if we changed the laws concerning oneor more drugs?
					- Prevention and treatment
						- both "demand-side" programs, but very different for of intervention.
					- Prevention:
						- Dare program, research show it was ineffective
						- Administered in the schools, by the mass media, community groups.
						- targets children/adolesents
					- Treatment:
						- Medical, psychiatric, or social work program
						- Target adults with substance us problems
						- Issues we do not have enough bed space in these treatment facilities and the quality of treatment is also not that great.
					- Proof that treatment works but we are not supporting it, proof that these policies do not work but we still have them.
					-
					- Law enforcement:
						- Arresting drug dealers does not stop the mfrom dealing drugs
						- insease we see displacement
						- Suggestions? docusing on certainty of section instead of servirt of saction.
					-
					- reform directions:
						- focusing more on rehabilitaiton and treatement rather then law enforcement
						- Decriminalizing certain drugs
						- Community efforts: community centers for your ht to take the moff the street.
						- Job efforts: removing the question of crime records.
					-
					-
	- [[]] Film Notes 9/20
		- Nixon started off with a soft approach towards crime. Although his political rhetoric as tough, he placed a lot of emphasis on rehabilitation.
		- Has it been successful? It depends on how you measure sucess. For some people, the goal has always been to lock many people up. In this sense, it was a success but it has not reduced crime.
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Probation]] 9/20
		- ## Probation vs Parole:
		  background-color:: #533e7d
		  heading:: 2
			- Probation is a court-ordred saction offered as an alternative to incarceration.
			- Parole implies that the offender has already served a portion of his/her sentence incarcerated (indeterminate sentence)
			- Goals of probation and parole:
				- to protect the community, and to rehabilitate offenders.
				- prisoner reentry: (parole)
					- the process of leaving incarceration and returning to society.
		- ## History of probation and parole:
		  background-color:: #533e7d
		  heading:: 2
			- The origins and evolution of probation:
				- John Augustus, Boston 1841 (posted bail on an alchoholic that was up before a drug).
				- In 1878 Massachusetts became the first state to adopt probation laws for <ins>juveniles</ins>
				- In 1901 (over 40 years later), New York passed first statue authorizing probation for <ins>adult</ins> offenders.
					- by 1956, all states had adopted adult and juvenile probation laws.
				- Initially, probation officers were volunteers.
				- Overtime, they became the "eyes and ears of the local court"
				- In sum, the development of probation was haphazard, missions were unclear, and tasks were continually added to their responsibilities.
		- ## Parole's Historical Roots and Modern Development:
		  background-color:: #533e7d
		  heading:: 2
			- <ins>Alexander Maconochie</ins> and <ins>Sir Walter Crofton</ins> are accreted with develping the early parole system, 19th century, northfolk island, an english colony, used the mark system
			- Would go to tough prisosn and then take them to more lenient intermidate facilities where they could earn points and then be let out on parole (ireland)
				- These ideas were adopted in the US by <ins>Zebulon Brockway</ins> a Michigan penologist.
			- Two pronged strategy for manging prison pop, and preparing inmates for release:
				- Indeterminate sentencing
				- Parole supervision
					- Reflected the idea that incarcerated individuals could be reformed; that the prison experience should be individualized
						- Indeterminate scenting spread rapidly through the US:
							- In 1907 New York became the first state to fully adopt a parole system.
							- By 1942, all states and the federal goverment adopted parole.
						- There has been a major decline in the use of indeterminate scentncing
							- Wanted to reduce discretion; wanted to reduce disparities.
	- [] 9/22
		- Even though we see that many states have shifted towards a determinate system, even those that have kept indetermiante sentencing have still shifted away from parole.
		- We ahve seen a big shift over the years due to the ethics of indeterminate sentencing and want to have more cinstiency in sentencing.
		- All correction populations have grown over the past half-centrury; but it is important to remember that the states that have the greates impact are: <ins>Texas, California, Florida, and New York</ins>; which account for 2/5 of the correctional population.
		- Has funding kept pace with the incarceration growth?
			- No most of the mone ygoes to prison systems while funding for community supervision is poorly funded; pretty much unchanged since 1870s.
			- Have to reply on technology and few reporting per month per individuals.
			- Probation and parole officers are charged wth keeping track fo individuals, completing paperwork, going to court, etc. But have growing caseloads that make the job difficult.
			- Probationers are less sierously criminal than parolees.
			- Adult probaioners are **younger, more often femae, and non-minority, and have less serious criminal histories then parolees**
		- The charateristic of person under supervision has become more serious (due to **prison overcrowding and a lack of resources**)
		- 74% of released inmates are drug/alcohol involved, 15% are mentally ill, 11% have occuring disorders.
		- High recividivism rates amongst the mentally ill, people with substance abuse issues, and those affilated with gangs.
		- Most parolees officers are aware that only a quarter of probations have recieved substance abuse assistance with the prison.
		- Many are not eligble forr programs due to their prison classifcaiton; may be to violent, posing a risk to the prsion.
		- Only 2/5 of those with mental illnesses have recieved programming during incaeration
		- Due to funding issues, we see a large number of prisoners released from prisons with out any level of programming that could have helped them during the period that they were incarcerated. Parolees are often blamed but it goes beyond them, with issues originating within the prison itself.
		- **Standard conditions:** Finding employment, not carrying weapons, reporting any change of addres and employmenet, sex offender registration, paying their supervision fees, etc.
		- **Special conditions:** drug tests, keeping distance from idividuals, etc.
		- A majority of citizens care more about repeat offending yet the consequences are the same for minor violations and new crimes.
		- At the core, probation and parole are supposed to be rehabilitative so there is talk about providing supportive services when minor conditions are violated instead of returning them to prison.
		- A lot of the times, individuals are required to take randomzied drug tests depsite having no history of crime use.
		  ``
		- While caseloads have grow and funding has declined, supervision conditions have piled up.
		- The three R's of supervision conditions:
		  background-color:: #533e7d
			- **Realistic** - few in number and attainable
			- **Relevant** - tailored to the individuals risks and needs.
			- **Research based** - supported by evidence that will change behavior and result in improved public safety and reintegration outcomes.
		- In recent years a number of laws have been passed that have increased the amount of sueprvision recived by sex offenders on probation/parole.
			- Megan's law: when a person charged with sex offending is released from prison, you are notified
			- Jessica's law: a repeat sex offender abduted a 9-year-old girl.
			- Residency laws: Place restricitons on where sex offenders can live.
				- often times, a great deal of time of parole officers goes to locating a home in which such individuals can live.
				- Some argue that this is a waste as there is no connection ebtween where a prison lives and whether or not they re-offend.
				- 12 times the number of people have to follow these residency conditions are actually homeless in the state of California.
					- Research argue that such vulnerability leads to higher recidivism rates.
				- With the passage of these laws, we have seen an icnrease in technology that monitors probatins and parolees (gps monitors, ankle monitors)
				- Foudn that it does not reduce recividivism, but does increase the work of parole officers.
				- Desptie such lack of empriical support for their use, the public still supports them
				- Current probation and parole practices are increasing focused on sex offender ( less than 10% of community supervision caseloads)
				- HOWEVER, due to public fear, there are a large number of resoruces that go into thsi area
					- this other individuals have been deprioritized receiving less attention despite more violent offenses.)
			- There are a number of civil disabilites/statury restrictions that apply to convicted offenders.
				- these restrictions differ by state but include:
					- loss of patental rights
					- prohibited from serving on aj ury or holding public office
					- unable to own firearms
					- Employment restrictions (mandating background checks, fear of liability, more then 60% of employers say they wouldn't knowingly hire anyone who has a criminal background)
						- Some states bar those with criminal records from receiving certain licenses; security, health, cosmetology
					- Failure rates among felony probations and parolees are high.
					- About 2/5 of felony probations were rearrested for a crime within 3 years.
					- Roughly 2/3 of parolees were arearrested within 3 years.
					- Just over half of paroles were back in prison after 3 years, serving time for a new prison sentence or technical violation.
					- There is a great variation in recidivism across states why?
						- Because it various by hwo technical violations are handled.
						- In some states, we see that they are given second or third chances, in others, they are immediately sent back to prison
							- California 65% of readmissions within California prisons were fro technical violations (has a HUGE impact on the prison population)
						- Some states release people earleir
						- some areas have better employment conditions
					- Where to go from here:
						- To use validate risk assessment instruments to assess how individuals are rated (risk factors correspond to a certain number of points, given a risk score, put into a category of risk)
							- Some of the concerns is that they refer to criminal justice data in which certain demographics are more prone to police interactions due to policing methods.
	- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Juvenile Justice]] 9/29
		- ## Juvenile Justice Policy
		  heading:: 2
			- The juvenile policy system was historically more oriented towards the rehabilitation than the adult system.
			- This started to shift in the 1990s when the tough-on-crime policies started to prevail and the media and public attention shifted their attention to the **super predators** -- which was to be understood to be a new breed of juvenile delinquent that lacked remorse for their crimes -- making it seem like they were every unlikely to benefit from rehabilitation.
			  background-color:: #533e7d
		- ## Super predator video:
		  heading:: 2
			- 1994: title of wave of juvenile violent crime
			- Domianted b ya sense that juvenille violence had lost control
			- Impulsive and remorseless that they could kill with out giving a second thought
			- But there was one problem THE CALCULATIONS WEER WRONG, THEY MADE IT UP.
			- Derrick Hardaway was 14 when he and his brother drove to kill 'yummy' (Robert Sanaford) for killing a girl (black disciples gang - do what he was told to do or have it done to him)
			- This story in chiago scared people
			- John Dijulio was a political scientist. He looked at studies that estimated that by 2,000, millions of youths would be committing crime
			- Another social scientist James Fox said that by 2005 crime would triple.
			- They felt compelled to draw attention to this percieved threat.
			- The word super predator caugh on Dijulio says that he was not pointing towards any particular group to being the most violent but he wrote that it was mostly young black males
			- lawmakers seized the moment to create tougher crimes.
			- Virtually every state passed laws targeting juvenile offenders, making it easier to prosecute them for logner and as a dults; but juvenile crime was already on the decline.
			- By the late 1990s, Dijulio saw how wrong he was.
			- But once the diea was out there, it was out there
			- Dijulio and fox both signed a friend of the court doccument that would ban mantaory life sentences for juveniles convicted of murder (2012 supreme court case)
				- TODO Research what a 'friend of a court doccument is'
		- ## Trends in Juvenile crime:
		  heading:: 2
			- Early juvenile justice system was established on the doctrine of <ins>parens patria (state as parent)</ins>, and assumed that children could be rehabilited.
			- The rational for this was that youth were developmentally different adn that their behaviors is malleable.
			- The orientation began to shift in the early 1990s.
				- Identification of youth "super predators"
			- Growing popularity of tough on crime policies
			- Over the next deacade, states made it easier for prosecutres to file chargest against serious juvenile offenders in adult court.
			- AS a result, the number of youth sentences to serve time in adult prisons grew dramatically.
			- Over the past years, juvenile crime rates have declined. The tendency is now back to more rehabilitative efforts with juvenile offenders.
				- but this is not universally the case.
				- There are still some states that continue to use these oliceis.
				- In the 90s we saw increases in crime and were very reactive.
				- More juvenile prisons constructed and harsher crimes.
				- But the juvenile predator wave never came.
				- Once the idea of super predators started to disipate, Juvenile justice policy started to return to its foundations.
				- Today we have better access to the causes of juvenile crime and what can be done to prevent it.
				-
	- Overlooked side of the criminal justice system 10/04/22
		- [[Archive/Criminal Justice/Jail]]
		  collapsed:: true
			- ## Jails in the US
			  heading:: 2
				- Jails are often missing from discussion of US over-reliance on incarceration.
				- Average daily population outnumbers jail population.
				- However, nearly 18 times as many people are admitted to jails anually.
				- Roughly 730,000 people are held in more than 3,000 jails across the United states.
				- This includes nearly 4,000 juveniles confined in adult jails
				- ## Conseuqneces
				  heading:: 2
					- Those in jail, their family communities
					- Exacerbates inequality across many lines
					- paying for jail is actually extremely costly
			- ## Jail Functions:
			  heading:: 2
				- Both prisons and jails house people who are serving time following a criminal conviction.
				- In addition, jails preform the following functions:
					- Hold people awaiting trail or sentencing
					- transfer inmates to state or federal facilities
					- detain people with serious mental illness
					- Hosue those who are schedule to testify in court
					- Temporarily house juveniles pending trasnfer to juvenile authorities.
					- Hold inmates for overcrowed state, federal, and other facilities.
						- Suggest that there are econimic incentives to keep their jails full.
				- In most cases, about 2/3 of people housed in jails have yet to be conviced and are awaitng their trial.
				  background-color:: #533e7d
					- Whereas prisons are operated at the state or federal level, jails are managed by county governments and/or local law enforcement
					- There has been a general growth but the growth in prison population exceeds the growth in jail population
			- ## Facilities and Operations:
			  heading:: 2
				- in 2013 there were 3163 jail faciltieis in the united states.
				- This is 4% decline from their prior consus
					- **this is not because the population was increasing, but due to the consolidation of facilities (some came together) **
				- From 1983 to 2014, the number of confined jail inmates more then trippled to an ADP 731,300
				- In a single year (2008), jail admissions totalted 13.6 million
				- ## urban vs rural jails
				  heading:: 2
					- despite the greater focus on urban jails, the jail incarceration rate is higher in rural settings.
					- Due to the opioid epidemic and other substance issues hitting rural settings and because progressive conversations about reducing jails have taken lace in urban areas instead of rural communities that may depend on these jails economically.
					- Us communities spent 22.2 billion on jails
					- Daily cost per day ranged from $50 to $368 per inmate across countries.
						- Bott line: these systems are huge and cost billions to maintain
						- Small counties in teh US have actually contributed to the most in regards to incarceration.
			- ## Jail Inmates:
			  heading:: 2
				- As compared to prisons, there is tremendous diversity in jail inmate populations.
				- individuals are booked into jail wit ha range of physical and mental helath conditions
				- They house both men and women, as well as individuals of various conviciton status and custody levels.
					- This can make it harder to manage jail facilities.
					- The majority of jail inmates are incarcerated for nonviolent traffic, property, drug, or public order defenses.
					- This is important because if we want to reduce jail populations, we must ask if these individuals are a danger to the population if they are released
					- About 85% of the inmates are male
					- 15% are fmeale (more than prison due to drug use and reduced history of crime)
					- Majority of jail inmates are  are racial and ethnic minorities.
					- Disparities in ail are striking
					- 62% of individuals are unconvicted.
					- 38% are convicted.
			- ## Conditions of Confinement:
			  heading:: 2
				- More than 3/5 of jail inmates have mental health problems.
					- Fewer than 1 in 5 received treatment in jail
				- More than 2/3 of jail inmates report substance abuse or dpeendency
					- only 1 in 5 recieved substance absue treatement after enterting jail
					- Jail inmates are more likely than state and federal inmates to have dropped out of high school and less likely tto have a GED.
					- Only 14% of ail inamtes recieve educational classes, and fewer than 1 in 10 participate in vocational.
					- Inmate safety including sexual assault and suicide, are key concerns among jail officals.
					- A lof of people in jails have mental healt hissues or substance abuse problems
					- 7 times higher sucide rate in jail than prisons
					- Jails implement in much less due to a highly shifting poluicy for sexual abuse and assault in prison
					- if you don't comply with PREA, you can lose a lot of grant money
						- TODO disover what PREA is
						- HOWEVER, local jails dont have as much at risk because they do not get as much money from the state. Therefore, much less oversight for PREA compliance.
			- ## Pretrial detention and release:
			  heading:: 2
				- The main factor driving jail population growth is the increase in retrai ldetainees.
				- Nearly 2/3 of all jail inmates have yet to be convicted of a crime.
	- 10/6/22
		- A lot of effort to reduce the jail popuation have had an emphasis on reducing the number of individuals that are kept in jail despite being sentence.
			- Why ahve they increased?
			  Nail amounts have increased.
			- Perosnal regonizance release:
				- release someone and ask them to please show up to their next court data
				- Pretrial service release:
					- must come in a few times prior to their actual trial
				- the judge makes the decision based on the criminal history and the nature of the charges.
				- Uncessary ptrrial detention is expensive:
					- County goverments spend an estimated $9 billion annually on pretrial detention practices.
					- So how are pretrail decisions made?
						- release on bail
						- release without bail (ROR)
						- Hold in jail until trial
						- Based on:
							- flight risk
							- Risk of danger to the community
					- A lot of negative consequences related to being held pretrial:
					- the person detrained pretrial has a greater likelihood of conviction of a longer sentence
						- Why?
							- money. more more likely to take a plea offer while in jail
						- the pretrial population has really contributed to a spike in jail popuation
			- ## Strategies to cut the jail population and shorten jail stays
			  heading:: 2
				- adopt pretrail ris kassement tools
				- To asses the defendants likelihood of appearing in court and reoffending ptrial
				- Expand pretrial services
				- To help inform court/judicial decisions
				- to help manage risk presented by defendants
				- divert people from the criminal justice system
				- decriminilzaiton
				- civil citaiton
				- consider alternative to jai lfor convicted offenders
				- community correction
				- expedite case processing
				- Focus on releasing those that are detained for pretrial release
		- ## Jails in an era of criminal justice reform:
		  heading:: 2
			- prison downsizing and jails: lesson from california
			- 2011 US supreme court decision, brown v plata, california ordered to downsize prison population by 25% within 2 years.
			- public safety realignment act
			- Were countries able to ebar the burden?
				- More serious offenders on local probation
				- larger caseloads neccesitate a focus ons urvillance, not rehabilitation
				- community concerns about public safety
				- communities ill-equipped to provide essential health care and social services
				- jail populations have increased, and jail sentences have lengthened
			- So was realignemnt an effective decareration stratergy, or did it simply result in trans-incarceration?
				- it depends on where you look. Overall prison population was reduce but it had a negative impact. Probation being overhwemeled, local jail populations increaseing.
		- ## Conclusions:
		  heading:: 2
			- castly understudied area within criminology
			- these facilities cost billions of dollars to operate, yet fail to meet the needs of inmates.
			- These failure correpsond to high rate of recividism and high costs to local correctional systems.
			- 2/3 of those in jail have yet to be convicted of a crime, the majority of whom remain in jail because they cannot afford bail.
			- Practices cost communities upwards of $9 billion a year.
			- Pretrail detention also worsens individuals outcomes int he CJ system.
		- ## Fines and fees:
		  heading:: 2
			- legal financial obligations (ie LFOs) refer to fines , restitution, fees, costs, and surcharges.
			- LFOs can be triggered by minor contacts with the criminal justice system, includingroutine traffic systems.
			- Unpaid LFOs can trigger additional sactions that vary in scope and serverity.
				- accumulate a lot of money
				- loophole: not jailed for nonpayment, but jailed for contempt of court.
		- ## How monetary sactions work:
		  heading:: 2
			- In the 19990s, states began changing laws to expand the number and types of montetary sactions that can impose.
			- The state legislatures construct statues to detail the type of monetary sanctions judges can impose.
			- Counties implement their own formal and informal policies that inform the amoutns issued, as well as monitoring/collection efforts.
			- Those that spend tiem in local jails and prison ahve lwoer weath than the nonincarcereted population.
			-
			- Look at the videos on canvas that touch on LFOs
			-
		- ## collerateal consequences of sanctions:
		  heading:: 2
			- **Unpaid lfos can grow overtiem as interests and other penalities accure**
			- unpaid lfos also have **non-justice related conseuquences**
				- drivers license restrictions
				- voting rights restrictions
			- Lfos can also be tranffered int ocivil jdugements ot expand colleciton oppertunities.
			- Can take part of your wages, can take taxes, can advertise and sell your property in some states.
			- "pay-only probation" and then use private provaiton companies.
			- use of community services or incarceration as alternative "methods of payment"
	- 10/11/22
		-