# Daily Schedule:
heading:: 1
	- {{renderer :smartblock, Daily Note, Journal Entry, true}} | {{renderer :smartblock, Daily Page, Page Entry, true}} | {{renderer :smartblock, Article Summary, Article Summary, false}}
	- 19:51
		- study // 5th amendnment - self incrim
		  collapsed:: true
			- berckmer v. Mcarty -
				- interactions during a routine traffic stop do not constitute a custodial interrogation -
				- no miranda rights needed.
			- Howes v. fields
				- The court ultimately decided that the confession was admissible in court, ruling that the prisoner was not in "custody" during the questioning because he had not been formally arrested.
			- J.D.B. v. North Carolina, 564 U.S. 261 (2011)
				- Diability student age 13 stole camera, confessed while at school with school officals
					- no miradnad warnings
				- he sought to surpess the confession arguing he was in police custody given his age and was not read Miranda rights.
					- lower court held age was not relevent
				- The supreme court found that age was relevent factor siting that its beyond dispute that children will feel bound to submit to police quesiton when an adult in the same circumstance would feel free to leave.
			- **police do not have to provide mrianda warnings if the custodial interrogation is intended to protect public safety**
			- **these public safety exceptions succeed ~80%**
				- example: "where is the gun, is it loaded, are you carrying any other weapons?"
				- New York v. Benjamin Quarles, 467 is the case that decided this.
			- Miranda Waviars:
				- ~75% of suspect waive rights.
				- express wavier test:
					- Suspects must make *clear statement* that indicates
						- they know their rights
						- they know they are waiving them
						- they know the conseuqnces of waving them
						- Miranda seemed to requrie expressive waiver.
					- impleid wavier test
						- when a suspect knowingly waived rights is judged from totality of circumstances
						- Berghuis v. Thompkins
							- man was interogated for 3 hours, towards the end he confessed, prior to confessing they were trying to get him to sign a form indicating he understood his rights be he declined to do so
							- supreme court found this was an implied wavier.
				-
		- study // 6th amendment -  trial rights
		  collapsed:: true
			- speedy trial, impartial jury
			- Eight rights for criminal defendants – Right to speedy trial – Right to public trial – Right to impartial jury – Right to jury of peers (i.e., local) – Right to notice of charges against accused – Right to confront witnesses against accused – Right to compulsory process to obtain witnesses in favor of accused – Right to defense counsel
			- right to council:
				- until 1932 it was believed the goverment could not prevent criminal defendant from obtaining legal representation
			- Gideon v. Wainwright - 6th amendment right to counsel extended to all felony defendants in state criminal trials
			-
			- What does "all criminal prosecution mean"?
				- any legal process initiated by the goverment that seeks to impose criminal sanctions on an individual for violation of a criminal law.
			- effective counsil:
				- original used mockery of justice when lawyers shocking bahvior turned into joke -- this used be the qualificaiton for ineffective until 1984
				- in 1984 strickland v washington created two-proing effective assistance counsel test
					- 1. reasonableesss - defendant must show the counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness
					  2. prejudice - the defendant must show "there is a reasonable probability that , but for count's unprofessional errors, they result of the proceeding would have been different.
			- Objections to the right of jury trial  -- "moral serious standard"
				- SCOTUS has extended right to jury trial for felonies and "morally serious" misdemeanors
			- Consititon does not specify jury size, but thompson v utah held that 12 member jury was  a consitional right.
				- but williams v floridfda held that 12- person jury was not consitionally garaunteed.
			- ballew v gerogia held that a 6-person jury was required.
			- guility verdicts did NOT have to be unanimous.
			- Burden of proof
				- due process clause requires proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and that in re winship "prepoderace of the evidence" was not enough.
			- Scotus held that unanimous verdict **IS** required in state felon cases.
			- **guilty pleas**
				- scotus recognized negotated guilty please are consitional in brady v uUS.
				- defendants who plead guiltty wave three rights
					- right to remain silent (5th)
					- right to trial by jury (6th)
					- right to confront witnesses against them (6th)
						- they do NOT wave their right to an attorney (6th)
				- trial courts must determine that guilty plea and wavior of rights is "voluntary and knowing
			-
	- 15:56
		- movie finder based on interests
			- Users can navigate and mark movies they find interesting
			- this will recommend new movies to them to find as well as improve matching for dates
	- 15:48
		- https://craftinginterpreters.com/
	- 15:00
		- https://www.atlassian.com/microservices/microservices-architecture/building-microservices
	- 2:41
		-
	- 2:26
		- {{video https://youtu.be/gBoHI1WhDtI}}
		-
	- 2:08
		- https://neuracache.com/
	- 2:00
		- https://github.com/doanhthong/awesome-pkm