- Fun idea, and tangent I had while working on #Projects/CHIP-8/Assembler
- You could theoretically make a language running off python bytecode inside the PVM. The reason why you don't see any PVM languages besides python is because the bytecode gets changed a lot, which would break compatability. This is why something like the JVM is so popular because the bytecode is like always the same. However, you can completely mitigate the problem of python's ever changing bytecode by hijacking python's compiler. You can do this by making your parser parse into python's AST formatting.
- This would then make appropriate bytecode for you always, even if the bytecode changes between python versions.
- Why would you do this? This allows you to make dynamically typed, garbage-collected language incredibly fast, with speeds that mirror python for both runtime and compilation. In theory I also believe this would allow interoperability with all the modules made for python.
- The downside, there is no real advantage to using this as compared to python.
- However I actually see 1 potential cool use case. You might be able to port other popular dynamically typed languages to run on the PVM this way.
- For example, Perl
- You could in theory fully run Perl inside the PVM, getting access to all of perl while access to python's rich library.
- You would need some kind of automatic casting though when using python packages, as perl only really has 1 data type, that is the string.
- Perhapse you can even add ontop the perl syntax for better interopability, making it so when u call code thats in a python function, you have to declare the type you want it to cast too
- eg:
  ```
  fancyprint(variable_here: INT)
  ```