- [[Arguments for God]]
	- # The Fine Tuning Argument
		- There are many [[Arguments for God]] that are compelling, however, no more so then the fine-tuning argument. This argument centers itself around the premises that the universe's conditions  are calibrated precisely to allow for life.
			- Take for example, the Gravitational Constant (G), a constant which underpins many of the staples of physics. For instance, it is use when calculating the magnitude of the attractive force (F) between two spherical bodies  where there masses are labeled M1 and M2.
				- $\ F = G \frac{m_1 m_2}{R^2}$ (Newton's law of Universal gravition.)
			- This constant also occurs when dealing with orbital mechanics. As such, it is easy to see how a variation in this constant could lead to a significantly different universe. Not only would planetary orbits would be affected, but the mechanisms that underline solar fusion would be too. Gravitational pressure affects the rate at which fusion occurs. To little, and fusion is unable to happen.  On the other hand, if this universal constant was greater, we would see more fusion, with stars of lesser mass being able to fuse more than deuterium, leading to a change in what is considered rare metals. As such, the fundamental makeup of our universe would look different. Changes in the gravitational constant, such as a decrease could affect the rate at which carbon is produced in the universe, as there would be less stars capable of fusing helium to carbon, potentially making carbon based life even rarer.
			-
		-