# Chapter 10 - Decentralization Movement
heading:: 1
	- ## Birth of Labeling theory:
	  heading:: 2
		- Labeling theory is:
			- *"labeling theory
			  argues that interaction with the criminal justice system actually
			  can create, intensify, and perpetuate criminal behavior "*
			- It has the following assumptions:
				- labeling and stigmatizes offenders, thus subjecting them to criminal associations that, in turn, make criminal careers more likely.
	- ## Lindon Johnson approach to crime:
	  heading:: 2
		- 1964 Lindon Johnsons crime controll approach:
			- dervived from a "war mentality" against domestic social illnesses
			- He believed if we put enough resources together we can solve the problem, sorta like the space race.
		- presidents commision - Task force created under him, "The challenge of crime in a free society", concluded that crime in america would not be remieded by mearly expanding the criminal justice system
		- During this era, the name of the game was to avoid the criminal justice system at all cost. This was done through "prejudical dispositions", or in other words the use of non-insutuinal responses to law breaking.
		- However, fundinging was needed to actually make this happen
		- Safe streets act provided grants to help the adminstration quickly enable reforms.  Worth noting that this federal funding was not perminate, the idea was that once they saw the reform they would want to support it themselves.
	- ## Diversion
	  heading:: 2
		- Diversion came as a result of he decentralization movement. Played a major rule for juveniles.
		- Instead of going to reformatories,etc, youth would be divered into neighborhood agencies (yourh service beauros) where they would be offered various types of counseling, provdedp lacement in group of foster homes if needed, and offered educaiton and special education, as well as vocational training.
			- Its main principle for success was that they wanted volunteer participation from the juvenile.
		- Types of diversion programs: legal, paralegal, nonlegal (p.169)
	- ##
	  heading:: 2
- # Chapter 11 - Conservatism
  heading:: 1
	- Time - during end of vietnam war, iran hostage situation, three mile island, crippling inflation and high unemployment.
	- Decentrialization movement didn't seem to be working, so the next best thing was to do a full reversal back into incarceration.
		- The belief in the 1980s was that all of our efforts to treat and rehabilitate have failed.
	- Main concern during this era was the econemy, crime and murder rates were stable.
	- The cost of the war on crime is what caused fear of crime. this caused it to become at the center of everything politically.
	- Eventually, regan became president i nthe 180s
		- he had zero tolerance policy for crime, he also greatly reduced the role of the goverment everywhere.
			- Number of billionairs increased during the regan era as a result.
		- During this time, crime controll become more punitive, expensive, and we relied more on incarceration -- thus leading to the **mass incarceration era**.
		- WAR ON DRUGS - ZERO CARE FOR CIRCUMSTANCES OF CRIME, FEDERAL SENTENCING REFORM ACT
	- ## Neo conservative criminology:
	  heading:: 2
		- Moved away from indeterminate sentencing to determinate sentencing, three strikes laws, rembracing the death penalty.
		- 80s was a mass mobilizaiton of addressing smaller crimes like drug dealing.
		- theories durign this time evoked classicalism and moralism
			- Example - rational choice theory (based on classical determinism)
			- some started to believe crime was the result of the breakdown of traditional values.
- # Chapter 12  -
  heading:: 1