# Daily Schedule:
heading:: 1
	- {{renderer :smartblock, Daily Note, Journal Entry, true}} | {{renderer :smartblock, Daily Page, Page Entry, true}} | {{renderer :smartblock, Article Summary, Article Summary, false}}
	- 22:35
		- [[NextJS]]
			- App router: https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing
			-
	- 21:40
		- # [[NodeJS]]
		  heading:: 1
			- # File System (fs Module)
			  heading:: 1
				- https://kinsta.com/knowledgebase/nodejs-fs/#prerequisites-to-understanding-the-nodejs-file-system
				- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/node-js-fs-readdirsync-method/
				-
	- 19:25
		- # NextJS
		  heading:: 1
			- [[NextJS/Dynamic Routes]]
				- ### Example
				  heading:: 3
					- For example, a blog could include the following route `pages/blog/[slug].js` where `[slug]` is the Dynamic segment for blog posts.
					- ```js
					  import { useRouter } from 'next/router'
					  
					  export default function Page() {
					  const router = useRouter()
					  return <p>Post: {router.query.slug}</p>
					  }
					  ```
			-
	- 1:20
		- # Binary Search Tree
		  heading:: 1
			- # Summary
			  heading:: 1
				- A binary search tree is a tree that has zero, one, or tow children.
				- A binary search tree must also abide by the following rules:
					- each node can have *at most* one "left" and one "right" child.
					  logseq.order-list-type:: number
					- A node's "left" descendants can only contain values that are less than the node itself. Likewise, a node's "right" descendants can only contain values that are greater than the node itself.
					  logseq.order-list-type:: number
				- An example of a binary tree that is **not** a binary search tree:
				- {{renderer code_diagram,mermaid}}
					- ```mermaid
					  graph LR
					  
					  50 --- 20
					  50 --- 30
					  ```
				- ## What use cases do binary search trees excel at?
				  heading:: 2
					- If you want a data structure that maintains order yet also has fast search, fast insertion, and fast deletion, then binary search trees are the data structure that you need.
				-
		- [[Tree]]
			- # What are trees?
			  heading:: 1
				- Similarly to [[DSA/Linked List]], trees are a node based data structure; however, unlike a link list, each node can have links to *multiple* nodes.
				- ## Tree terminology
				  heading:: 2
					- **Root** - the uppermost node.
					- **Parent** - Any node that has 'children' nodes.
					- **Descendants** - *All* the nodes that stem from a single node.
					- **Ancestors** - All the nodes that a single node descends from.
					- **Level** - Each level is a row within a tree.
					- **Balance** - A tree is balanced when its nodes' subtree has the same number of nodes in it.
				-